# This is my journal 8/27/2022

## What is OAuth?

> OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that describes how unrelated servers and services can safely allow authenticated access to their assets without actually sharing the initial, related, single logon credential.

## Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.

- Whenever you login to a website, using another website services like google, facebook, github, etc.

## How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?

- The first site gives the user's client a token, the client's software presents the request token to their authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate, then the user approves a transaction at the first website, the user is given an approved access token, the second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user. Then the completed transaction occurs.

## What is OpenID?

- OpenID is for humans logging into machines, a single sign in service.

## What is the difference between authorization and authentication?

- Authentication determines whether the user are who they claim to be, authorization determines what users can and cannot access.

## What is Authorization Code Flow?

- The process which exchanges an authorization code for a token in order to grant access.

## What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?

> The user clicks Login within the application.

Auth0's SDK creates a cryptographically-random code_verifier and from this generates a code_challenge.

Auth0's SDK redirects the user to the Auth0 Authorization Server (
/authorize
endpoint) along with the code_challenge.

Your Auth0 Authorization Server redirects the user to the login and authorization prompt.

The user authenticates using one of the configured login options and may see a consent page listing the permissions Auth0 will give to the application.

Your Auth0 Authorization Server stores the code_challenge and redirects the user back to the application with an authorization code, which is good for one use.

Auth0's SDK sends this code and the code_verifier (created in step 2) to the Auth0 Authorization Server (
/oauth/token
endpoint).

Your Auth0 Authorization Server verifies the code_challenge and code_verifier.

Your Auth0 Authorization Server responds with an ID token and access token (and optionally, a refresh token).

Your application can use the access token to call an API to access information about the user.

The API responds with requested data.

## What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?

> Implicit Flow with Form Post flow uses OIDC to implement web sign-in that is very similar to the way SAML and WS-Federation operates.

## What is Client Credentials Flow?

> With machine-to-machine (M2M) applications, such as CLIs, daemons, or services running on your back-end, the system authenticates and authorizes the app rather than a user.

## What is Device Authorization Flow?

> With input-constrained devices that connect to the internet, rather than authenticate the user directly, the device asks the user to go to a link on their computer or smartphone and authorize the device. This avoids a poor user experience for devices that do not have an easy way to enter text. To do this, device apps use the Device Authorization Flow (drafted in OAuth 2.0). For use with mobile/native applications.

## What is Resource Owner Password Flow?

> Though we do not recommend it, highly-trusted applications can use the Resource Owner Password Flow, which requests that users provide credentials (username and password), typically using an interactive form.

- Sources:(auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow)(www.csoonline.com/article/3216404/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)
