# Reading Notes 1/17/2023

## Docker

- Docker is a platform for developers and system administrators to build, ship, and run distributed applications. It uses a containerization technology that allows users to package an application with all of its dependencies and run it in any environment.

- Docker uses a Dockerfile to define the configuration of the container, including the application and dependencies that should be included. Once the Dockerfile is created, users can build an image of the container using the docker build command. This image can then be run as a container using the docker run command.

- Docker also provides a centralized hub called the Docker Hub, where users can share and download pre-built images. This allows for easy collaboration and distribution of applications.

- Docker also provides an API, which allows for the management of containers, images, networks and volumes programmatically.

## VENV versus containers

> Virtual environments are used to isolate Python software packages locally. We can create an isolated box for individual projects so one can use Python 2.7 and Django 1.5 while another can use Python 3.5 and Django 2.1 on the same computer. Virtual environments are great.

> But…virtual environments can only isolate Python packages. They still rely on a global, system-level installation of Python albeit they can refer to the proper version. So when we use Python 2.7 in a project, we’re pointing to an installation of Python 2.7 on the computer itself, not actually within the virtual environment.

- Source: [wsvincent](https://wsvincent.com/beginners-guide-to-docker/)