# Reading notes 11/12/2022

## Linear Regression

- Scikit-learn is a python module for machine learning. It contains functions for regression, clustering, model selection and dimensionality reduction.

## Example

```%matplotlib inline
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import scipy.stats as stats
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import sklearn

from sklearn.datasets import load_boston
boston = load_boston

bos = pd.DataFrame(boston.data)
```

- lm.fit() makes a linear model

- lm.predict() preticts y using the linear model with estimated coefficients

## Training and validation of data sets

- In practice you wont implement linear regression on the entire data set, you will have to split the data sets into training and test data sets. So that you train your model on training data and see how well it performed on test data.

> Residual plots are a good way to visualize the errors in your data. If you have done a good job then your data should be randomly scattered around line zero. If you see structure in your data, that means your model is not capturing some thing. Maye be there is a interaction between 2 variables that you are not considering, or may be you are measuring time dependent data. If you get some structure in your data, you should go back to your model and check whether you are doing a good job with your parameters.

## What is Linear Regression?

- Regression searches for relationships among variables. For example, you can observe several employees of some company and try to understand how their salaries depend on their features, such as experience, education level, role, city of employment, and so on.

## When do you need Regression?

> Typically, you need regression to answer whether and how some phenomenon influences the other or how several variables are related. For example, you can use it to determine if and to what extent experience or gender impacts salaries.

## Why use Linear Regression?

Linear regression is probably one of the most important and widely used regression techniques. It’s among the simplest regression methods. One of its main advantages is the ease of interpreting results.

- Source: [realpython](https://realpython.com/linear-regression-in-python/)
- Source: [crayondata](https://www.crayondata.com/how-to-run-linear-regression-in-python-scikit-learn/)
