# Reading Notes 1/3/2023

> Django web applications access and manage data through Python objects referred to as models. Models define the structure of stored data, including the field types and possibly also their maximum size, default values, selection list options, help text for documentation, label text for forms, etc. The definition of the model is independent of the underlying database — you can choose one of several as part of your project settings. Once you've chosen what database you want to use, you don't need to talk to it directly at all — you just write your model structure and other code, and Django handles all the dirty work of communicating with the database for you.

- Django allows you to define relationships that are one to one (OneToOneField), one to many (ForeignKey) and many to many (ManyToManyField).

> Models are usually defined in an application's models.py file. They are implemented as subclasses of django.db.models.Model, and can include fields, methods and metadata. The code fragment below shows a "typical" model, named MyModelName:

```Example:
from django.db import models
from django.urls import reverse

class MyModelName(models.Model):
    """A typical class defining a model, derived from the Model class."""

    # Fields
    my_field_name = models.CharField(max_length=20, help_text='Enter field documentation')
    # …

    # Metadata
    class Meta:
        ordering = ['-my_field_name']

    # Methods
    def get_absolute_url(self):
        """Returns the URL to access a particular instance of MyModelName."""
        return reverse('model-detail-view', args=[str(self.id)])

    def __str__(self):
        """String for representing the MyModelName object (in Admin site etc.)."""
        return self.my_field_name
```

- A model can have an arbitrary number of fields, of any type — each one represents a column of data that we want to store in one of our database tables. 

- Example: my_field_name = models.CharField(max_length=20, help_text='Enter field documentation')

## Admin

> The Django admin application can use your models to automatically build a site area that you can use to create, view, update, and delete records. This can save you a lot of time during development, making it very easy to test your models and get a feel for whether you have the right data. The admin application can also be useful for managing data in production, depending on the type of website. The Django project recommends it only for internal data management (i.e. just for use by admins, or people internal to your organization), as the model-centric approach is not necessarily the best possible interface for all users, and exposes a lot of unnecessary detail about the models.

```Example:
from django.contrib import admin
admin.site.register(Book)
admin.site.register(Author)
admin.site.register(Genre)
admin.site.register(BookInstance)
```

- You can create a "superuser" account that has full access to the site and all needed permissions using manage.py.

- python3 manage.py createsuperuser

- Source: [Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Models)