# Reading notes 11/22/2022

## Serverless Computing

> Serverless is a cloud computing application development and execution model that enables developers to build and run application code without provisioning or managing servers or backend infrastructure.

- Serverless lets developers put all their focus into writing the best front end application code that they can.

- All developers need to do is write their application code and deploy it to containers managed by a cloud service provider.

> Also important: With serverless, developers never pay for idle capacity. The cloud provider spins up and provisions the required computing resources on demand when the code executes, and spins them back down again—called ‘scaling to zero’—when execution stops. The billing starts when execution starts, and ends when execution stops; typically, pricing is based on execution time and resources required.

## Serverless does not mean no servers

>'Serverless' describes the developer’s experience with those servers—they are are invisible to the developer, who doesn't see them, manage them, or interact with them in any way.
> Today every leading cloud service provider offers a serverless platform including Amazon Web Services (AWS Lambda), Microsoft Azure (Azure Functions), Google Cloud (Google Cloud Functions) and IBM Cloud (IBM Cloud Code Engine). Together serverless computing, microservices and containers form a triumvirate of technologies typically considered to be at the core of cloud-native application development.

## Serverless is more than just FaaS

> Function-as-a-service, or FaaS, is a cloud computing service that enables developers to run code or containers in response to specific events or requests, without specifying or managing the infrastructure required to run to code.

- FaaS is the compute model central to serverless and can be used interchangeably.

- Aside from FaaS, these include:

> Serverless databases and storage: Databases (SQL and NoSQL) and storage (particularly object storage) are the foundation of the data layer. A serverless approach to these technologies involves transitioning away from provisioning “instances” with defined capacity, connection and query limits, and moving toward models that scale linearly with demand in both infrastructure and pricing.
>Event streaming and messaging: Serverless architectures are well-suited for event-driven and stream-processing workloads most notably the open source Apache Kafka event streaming platform.
>API gateways: API gateways act as proxies to web actions and provide HTTP method routing, client ID and secrets, rate limits, CORS, viewing API usage, viewing response logs, and API sharing policies.

## Pros and cons of serverless

### Pros

- Improved developer productivity

- Pay for execution only

- Develop in any lnaguage

- Streamlined development, devops cycles

- Cost effective eprformance

- Usage visability

### Cons

- Bad latency

- Higher costs for stable or predictable workloads

- Debugging issues

- Vender lock-in

## Use cases for serverless

- Serverless and microservices

- API backends

- Data processing

- Massively parallel compute/“Map” operations

- Stream processing workloads

- Common applications for serverless

Source: [ibm](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/serverless)