# Reading Notes 12/3/2022

## Cryptography

> One of the earliest encryption techniques is the Caesar Cipher, invented by Julius Caesar more than two thousand years ago to communicate messages to his allies.

### Frequency Analysis

> Human languages tend to use some letters more than others. For example, "E" is the most popular letter in the English language. We can analyze the frequency of the characters in the message and identify the most likely "E" and narrow down the possible shift amounts based on that.

### Plaintext

> Another term for the original unencrypted message is plaintext. If the enemy already knew some part of the plaintext, it will be easier for them to crack the rest of the encrypted version.

### Encryption, decryption and cracking

- Encryption: scrambling the data according to a secret key (in this case, the alphabet shift).

Decryption: recovering the original - data from scrambled data by using the secret key.

- Code cracking: uncovering the original data without knowing the secret, by using a variety of clever techniques.

### About the Ceasar cipher

> In cryptography, a Caesar cipher, also known as Caesar's cipher, the shift cipher, Caesar's code or Caesar shift, is one of the simplest and most widely known encryption techniques. It is a type of substitution cipher in which each letter in the plaintext is replaced by a letter some fixed number of positions down the alphabet. For example, with a left shift of 3, D would be replaced by A, E would become B, and so on. The method is named after Julius Caesar, who used it in his private correspondence.[1]

- Sources: [KhanAcademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computers-and-internet/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:online-data-security/xcae6f4a7ff015e7d:data-encryption-techniques/a/encryption-decryption-and-code-cracking)

= [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caesar_cipher)
