# Reading Notes 1/21/2023

## Permissions and Postgresql

### Permission

> Permission checks are always run at the very start of the view, before any other code is allowed to proceed. Permission checks will typically use the authentication information in the request.user and request.auth properties to determine if the incoming request should be permitted.

- Permissions are used to grant or deny access for different classes of users to different parts of the API.

- The simplest style of permission would be to allow access to any authenticated user, and deny access to any unauthenticated user. This corresponds to the IsAuthenticated class in REST framework.

- A slightly less strict style of permission would be to allow full access to authenticated users, but allow read-only access to unauthenticated users. This corresponds to the IsAuthenticatedOrReadOnly class in REST framework.

## How Permissions are Determined

- Permissions are defined as a list of permission classes

- If any permission check fails either a exceptions.PermissionDenied or exceptions.NotAuthenticated will be raised

## Object level Permissions

- Rest framerwork permissions also support object level permissioning. Object level permissions are run my rest frameworks generic views when .get_object is called.

## Setting Permissions

The default permission policy may be set globally, using the DEFAULT_PERMISSION_CLASSES setting. For example.

```Example:
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'DEFAULT_PERMISSION_CLASSES': [
        'rest_framework.permissions.IsAuthenticated',
    ]
}
```

```Example:
from rest_framework.permissions import IsAuthenticated
from rest_framework.response import Response
from rest_framework.views import APIView

class ExampleView(APIView):
    permission_classes = [IsAuthenticated]

    def get(self, request, format=None):
        content = {
            'status': 'request was permitted'
        }
        return Response(content)
```

- Source: [Django-rest-framework](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/permissions/)
