# Reading Notes 11/29/2022

## Webscraping

- Web scraping is a technique to automatically access and extract large amounts of information from a website, which can save a huge amount of time and effort

- Read through the website’s Terms and Conditions to understand how you can legally use the data. Most sites prohibit you from using the data for commercial purposes.

- Make sure you are not downloading data at too rapid a rate because this may break the website. You may potentially be blocked from the site as well.

- You can utilize inspect to see the raw code of a website.

- Useful imports

import requests
import urllib.request
import time
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

- Beautiful soup parses the imported data

- soup.findAll('a') will find all `<a>` tags.

- time.sleep(1) Is useful to not be flagged as a spammer.

- Example code to download an entire data set:

```EX
line_count = 1 #variable to track what line you are on
for one_a_tag in soup.findAll('a'):  #'a' tags are for links
    if line_count >= 36: #code for text files starts at line 36
        link = one_a_tag['href']
        download_url = 'http://web.mta.info/developers/'+ link
        urllib.request.urlretrieve(download_url,'./'+link[link.find('/turnstile_')+1:]) 
        time.sleep(1) #pause the code for a sec
    #add 1 for next line
    line_count +=1
```

> Web scraping, web harvesting, or web data extraction is data scraping used for extracting data from websites.[1] Web scraping software may directly access the World Wide Web using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol or a web browser. While web scraping can be done manually by a software user, the term typically refers to automated processes implemented using a bot or web crawler. It is a form of copying in which specific data is gathered and copied from the web, typically into a central local database or spreadsheet, for later retrieval or analysis.

- Sources:
[towardsdatascience](towardsdatascience.com/how-to-web-scrape-with-python-in-4-minutes-bc49186a8460)
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_scraping)