# Reading Notes 1/28/23

## Djano Settings

> Different environments. Usually, you have several environments: local, dev, ci, qa, staging, production, etc. Each environment can have its own specific settings (for example: DEBUG = True, more verbose logging, additional apps, some mocked data, etc). You need an approach that allows you to keep all these Django setting configurations.
> Sensitive data. You have SECRET_KEY in each Django project. On top of this there can be DB passwords and tokens for third-party APIs like Amazon or Twitter. This data cannot be stored in VCS.
> Sharing settings between team members. You need a general approach to eliminate human error when working with the settings. For example, a developer may add a third-party app or some API integration and fail to add specific settings. On large (or even mid-size) projects, this can cause real issues.
> Django settings are a Python code. This is a curse and a blessing at the same time. It gives you a lot of flexibility, but can also be a problem – instead of key-value pairs, settings.py can have a very tricky logic.

## Django env

```Example:
import os

from django.core.exceptions import ImproperlyConfigured


def get_env_value(env_variable):
    try:
      	return os.environ[env_variable]
    except KeyError:
        error_msg = 'Set the {} environment variable'.format(var_name)
        raise ImproperlyConfigured(error_msg)


SECRET_KEY = get_env_value('SECRET_KEY')
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
        'NAME': get_env_value('DATABASE_NAME'),
        'HOST': get_env_value('DATABASE_HOST'),
        'PORT': int(get_env_value('DATABASE_PORT')),
    }
}
```

## 12 Factors

- A recommendation on how to build distributed web apps that will be easy to distribute and deploy in the cloud.

As the name suggests, the collection consists of twelve parts:

- Codebase

- Dependencies

- Config

- Backing services

- Build, release, run

- Processes

- Port binding

- Concurrency

- Disposability

- Dev/prod parity

- Logs

- Admin processes

## Summary of Django best practices

- Keep settings in environment variables.

- Write default values for production configuration (excluding secret keys and tokens).

- Don’t hardcode sensitive settings, and don’t put them in VCS.

- Split settings into groups: Django, third-party, project.

- Follow naming conventions for custom (project) settings.
