# Reading Notes 11/05/2022

## Jupyter Lab

- A web based user interface for project Jupyter.

- It offers a unified model for handling data formats.

> JupyterLab also offers a unified model for viewing and handling data formats. JupyterLab understands many file formats (images, CSV, JSON, Markdown, PDF, Vega, Vega-Lite, etc.) and can also display rich kernel output in these formats. See File and Output Formats for more information.

To navigate the user interface, JupyterLab offers customizable keyboard shortcuts and the ability to use key maps from vim, emacs, and Sublime Text in the text editor.

- Source: [Jupyter Lab](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/stable/getting_started/overview.html)

## Numpy

> We can read in the file using the csv.reader object, which will allow us to read in and split up all the content from the ssv file.

- To use a numpy csv file:

- Import the csv library.
- Open the winequality-red.csv file.
- With the file open, create a new csv.reader object.
- Pass in the keyword argument delimiter=";" to make sure that the records are split up on the semicolon character instead of the default comma character.
- Call the list type to get all the rows from the file.
- Assign the result to wines.

- Example:

```import csv
with open('winequality-red.csv', 'r') as f:
    wines = list(csv.reader(f, delimiter=';'))
    ```

-```print(wines[:3])``` prints out the first three rows

- In a NumPy array, the number of dimensions is called the rank, and each dimension is called an axis. So the rows are the first axis, and the columns are the second axis.

- We can check the number of rows and columns in our data using the shape property of NumPy arrays:

- There are a variety of methods that you can use to create NumPy arrays. The below code will create an array with 3 rows and 4 columns, where every element is 0, using numpy.zeros:

```import numpy as np
empty_array = np.zeros((3,4))
```

## Using numpy to read files

- wines = np.genfromtxt("winequality-red.csv", delimiter=";", skip_header=1)

## Slicing

- If we instead want to select the first three items from the fourth column, we can do it using a colon (:). A colon indicates that we want to select all the elements from the starting index up to but not including the ending index. This is also known as a slice:

```wines[0:3,3]```

## Selecting columns

- We can select an entire column by specifying that we want all the elements, from the first to the last. We specify this by just using the colon (:), with no starting or ending indices. The below code will select the entire fourth column:

wines[:,3]

## Selecting Rows

- We selected an entire column above, but we can also extract an entire row:

wines[3,:]

## Assigning values

 ```wines[:,10] = 50```

- The above code overwrites all the values in the eleventh column with 50.
