# Reading Notes 12/6/22

## Shutil

- copyfile() copies the contents of the source to the destination and raises IOError if it does not have permission to write to the destination file.

- Because the function opens the input file for reading, regardless of its type, special files (such as Unix device nodes) cannot be copied as new special files with copyfile().

- The implementation of copyfile() uses the lower-level function copyfileobj(). While the arguments to copyfile() are filenames, the arguments to copyfileobj() are open file handles. The optional third argument is a buffer length to use for reading in blocks.

- copy2() works like copy(), but includes the access and modification times in the metadata copied to the new file.

- shutil includes three functions for working with directory trees. To copy a directory from one place to another, use copytree(). It recurses through the source directory tree, copying files to the destination. The destination directory must not exist in advance.

- Source: [pymotw.com](https://pymotw.com/3/shutil/)

## Regex

- Use import re to use regex

- You can easily tackle many basic patterns in Python using ordinary characters. Ordinary characters are the simplest regular expressions. They match themselves exactly and do not have a special meaning in their regular expression syntax.

- A period. Matches any single character except the newline character.

- A caret. Matches the start of the string.

\w - Lowercase 'w'. Matches any single letter, digit, or underscore.
\W - Uppercase 'W'. Matches any character not part of \w (lowercase w).

\s - Lowercase 's'. Matches a single whitespace character like: space, newline, tab, return.
\S - Uppercase 'S'. Matches any character not part of \s (lowercase s).