# Reading Notes 10/31/2022

## Stack Ques

- What is a Stack?

> A stack is a data structure that consists of Nodes. Each Node references the next Node in the stack, but does not reference its previous.

- Stacks follow the concept FILO: First In Last Out

- The first item added to the stack will be the last item popped out of the stacck

- LIFO: This means that the last item added to the stack will be the first item popped out of the stack

## Pushing

> Pushing a Node onto a stack will always be an O(1) operation. This is because it takes the same amount of time no matter how many Nodes (n) you have in the stack
> When adding a Node, you push it into the stack by assigning it as the new top, with its next property equal to the original top.
> Popping a Node off a stack is the action of removing a Node from the top. When conducting a pop, the top Node will be re-assigned to the Node that lives below and the top Node is returned to the user.

## Peek

> When conducting a peek, you will only be inspecting the top Node of the stack.

Typically, you would check isEmpty before conducting a peek. This will ensure that an exception is not raised. Alternately, you can wrap the call in a try/catch block.

## Queue

- FIFO: First in First Out

- LILO: Last in Last Out

>When you add an item to a queue, you use the enqueue action. This is done with an O(1) operation in time because it does not matter how many other items live in the queue (n); it takes the same amount of time to perform the operation.
> When you remove an item from a queue, you use the dequeue action. This is done with an O(1) operation in time because it doesn’t matter how many other items are in the queue, you are always just removing the front Node of the queue.